Steve Holtsford: Hello.
Lourdes: Hi, Dr.
Lourdes: Hi there, no this lawyers from writers
Lourdes: They see
Lourdes: I thought I gave the wrong meeting ID.
Steve Holtsford: Oh,
Lourdes: I'll send her these that
Steve Holtsford: Sounds good.
Lourdes: Thank you.
Steve Holtsford: Thank you.
Hey,
Steve Holtsford: Hi there.
Galaxy A20: Hello. Finally,
Steve Holtsford: Finally, how are you
Steve Holtsford: Oh my gosh, so
Steve Holtsford: I have to be honest, this is the first time that I've that I've done this year, my first patient
Galaxy A20: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: I mean,
Steve Holtsford: I I have many patients that I see, face to face, but that you're my first telemedicine patient so I'm looking forward to this.
Galaxy A20: Okay. All right.
Steve Holtsford: And you you live in Joliet
Galaxy A20: You. Yeah. Yes.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: I do. Okay. All right. Well, I'm in St. Charles. Do you know where that is.
Galaxy A20: I heard of that never been
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, it's, it's probably an hour away. I would guess it's it's it's about an hour, I would say, okay, so yeah, this this telemedicine service bright heart health is new and Illinois. So, I think, be the first patient in Illinois.
Galaxy A20: Okay, this
Steve Holtsford: is cool. It's pretty neat. Right. Yeah.
Galaxy A20: That's cool.
Galaxy A20: Yeah. Yeah, it is.
Steve Holtsford: It really, it really is pretty neat. And especially now with all this virus stuff going around.
Galaxy A20: Yeah, the
Galaxy A20: coronavirus. Right, right.
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, we don't want to leave our house and we don't have to
Galaxy A20: Write is it would be good. Is this good
Galaxy A20: And my first of
All
Steve Holtsford: I'm going to try to arrange my screen. So I can
Steve Holtsford: Document.
Steve Holtsford: So you were at, are you on your phone now.
Steve Holtsford: Yes. Okay. Okay. Very good, very good.
Steve Holtsford: Now you you went to St. Joe's and Joliet into the ER. Is that right,
Right.
Steve Holtsford: Okay. And when was
Galaxy A20: It. See, I guess.
Galaxy A20: When I think it was around belt. The second or third
Galaxy A20: Then I wish, so
Steve Holtsford: Okay, but it's been a couple weeks.
Yeah.
Galaxy A20: Yes. Yeah. Alright.
Alright.
Steve Holtsford: So do you go by Sonia.
Galaxy A20: Yes, I do. So you
Steve Holtsford: Okay. All right. And, and you can call me, Steve on my name is Dr holds for but I don't mind being called Steve Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, okay.
Steve Holtsford: All right. So can you give me a little bit of history about what what sent it to the ER.
Galaxy A20: Well,
Galaxy A20: Well like I said do hair on
Galaxy A20: Edit withdraws irritation stomach be hurting so we
Steve Holtsford: Gotta
Steve Holtsford: Now, how long have you been doing heroin.
Galaxy A20: When I made doing says like 30 years now.
Steve Holtsford: Okay. Okay. All right. And how much would you do in a day.
Galaxy A20: Well, I do like a three times a day.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, okay, and
Steve Holtsford: Would you would you inject or snark or
Galaxy A20: Smell snore.
Steve Holtsford: snore. Okay. Never any injection
Steve Holtsford: No. Okay. All right.
Steve Holtsford: All right.
Steve Holtsford: And when was the last time you used
Galaxy A20: Were yesterday.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, okay.
Steve Holtsford: since you left the hospital, have you been doing about three dime bags a day or
Galaxy A20: I had been it went down some tasks thought, you know, it went down to like once a day.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, okay, and then
Steve Holtsford: Have you ever been in treatment at all. Have you ever had a
Galaxy A20: Well, I have been in a methadone treatment before
Steve Holtsford: Okay, when was that
Galaxy A20: When that was in like a
Galaxy A20: Like 2016 I have with for about a year. There I live I it was close to I and I used to stay and I will have my kids, but um
Galaxy A20: Yeah.
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: And you were on methadone for about a year.
Yes.
Steve Holtsford: How did it work for you.
Galaxy A20: Well, when I got off. It made me sick so
Steve Holtsford: Why does, why does
Galaxy A20: It mean is why I made me get back on camera because I couldn't get the medicine.
Steve Holtsford: Oh, why couldn't you get the medicine.
Galaxy A20: To give me get a transfer to another program this out here. They wouldn't they wouldn't accept me
Steve Holtsford: Oh, the Methadone clinic in Joliet wouldn't accept you.
Galaxy A20: Know. Now, right now.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: But for that year. You are on methadone. You did not use heroin.
Steve Holtsford: No. Okay. Okay. Well, that's good.
Steve Holtsford: That's good. I think we know that that works. Alright.
Steve Holtsford: The size that methadone clinic. Have you ever been in any other treatment.
Galaxy A20: No.
Steve Holtsford: Never an inpatient you never you never spent 30 days or anything.
Steve Holtsford: No. And how about as an outpatient besides the methadone or any other treatment and we sat around in a group and talked, or into it to an individual therapist.
Galaxy A20: No. Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: All right.
Steve Holtsford: Okay. And do you have any medical problems.
Galaxy A20: No.
No.
Steve Holtsford: You don't take any medications.
Steve Holtsford: Have you ever had an operation in the past.
Galaxy A20: No, I haven't.
No. Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Any kids.
Galaxy A20: Yes, I do have a
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: All right.
Steve Holtsford: Do you smoke.
Galaxy A20: Yes, I do.
Steve Holtsford: Come up how much
Galaxy A20: Like a half a pack a day.
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Any alcohol.
No.
Steve Holtsford: Weed
Galaxy A20: No. Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Any, any other drugs, any, any cocaine or pencils or
Galaxy A20: Know, whatever that didn't smoke on a
Galaxy A20: leash cigarette.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Galaxy A20: It'd be lazy. Yeah.
Let's go.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, and
Steve Holtsford: Do you live alone or with you. Have you still your kids at home or
Galaxy A20: When my kids grow.
Galaxy A20: Me, he might need to get in program to cuz he knows he allowed us in this and make me you so a boat.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, so he he could join he could join us on on the computer to huh
Galaxy A20: Yes, you need to go in, you know, we both need to, you know, work together.
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, yeah. Good, good, good for you. I'm proud of you.
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, you're going to do well. We'll get this taken care of. Yeah. Yeah. Good.
Steve Holtsford: All right.
Steve Holtsford: Have you ever
Steve Holtsford: Taken any buprenorphine or Suboxone on the street.
Galaxy A20: No.
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Did they give you any of it in the ER. No.
Galaxy A20: Yeah, they gave me they gave me some pills. Yeah.
Steve Holtsford: I think
Galaxy A20: It was some like Suboxone peel.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, did it. Did they dissolve under your tongue.
Steve Holtsford: Yes. Oh, yeah. Okay. And how many did they give you
Galaxy A20: When she gave me one hour. It is she came gave me to mow
Steve Holtsford: Okay, okay. But you didn't go home with any
Galaxy A20: I know
Galaxy A20: Okay, you
Steve Holtsford: Can. Okay. All right. Very good, very good. All right. So yeah, that, that sounds like that was was buprenorphine which is which known as more commonly as Suboxone
Steve Holtsford: And and when you took that it made it. You did it make you feel better to take care of some withdrawal symptoms.
Steve Holtsford: Yesterday. Okay. Okay.
Steve Holtsford: All right, so
Steve Holtsford: So it's, it actually is a very effective medication for opioid use disorder, which is what you have
Steve Holtsford: You know, and I'll give you a brief little
Steve Holtsford: lesson on how it works. It really is effective. And the reason it's effective is it goes to that same receptor in your brain where the heroin goes
Steve Holtsford: And it and it does stimulate the receptor, but it doesn't stimulate it as much as heroin, but it stimulates it enough to take care of the withdrawal symptoms and the cravings.
Galaxy A20: And okay
Steve Holtsford: And the nice thing about it is it is it sits on that receptor for a long time. So, you know, in terms of
Steve Holtsford: You know you probably use several times a day and you know and and whenever you're not using your thinking about how to how to
Steve Holtsford: You know, get the next bed in it and sort of your, your mind becomes
Steve Holtsford: Obsessed with with using and and getting ready to us again and and it makes it hard to sort of
Steve Holtsford: live a normal life.
Steve Holtsford: And
Steve Holtsford: With the
Steve Holtsford: With the yeah with with the Suboxone or buprenorphine.
Steve Holtsford: All the withdrawal symptoms are are taking care of that medication is on that receptor taking care of the withdrawal symptoms and it's on there for a long time. You only have you only have to take it once or twice a day, and it has what
Steve Holtsford: Half Life, which is which is the amount of time it takes for half of it to be metabolized is
Steve Holtsford: 24 to 36 hours.
Steve Holtsford: So it really, you know, it takes several days for it to be out of your system. So, so if you take it everyday as as you're supposed to
Steve Holtsford: It's all it's always there and you don't have to worry about withdrawal symptoms. You don't have to worry about cravings.
Galaxy A20: And the other
Steve Holtsford: The other nice thing about it, Sonia, is that
Steve Holtsford: Wallet wallet is on that receptor and it stimulates it not as much as heroin. It sticks in that receptor really hard. Like it doesn't let
Steve Holtsford: On that receptor in your brain. So, so if you're on.
Steve Holtsford: buprenorphine and you run into an old friend, and they've they've, they've got some some heroin and you're like, Okay, what the heck. I've been good. You'd be wasting your money.
Steve Holtsford: Because, because the heroin wouldn't be able to get to the receptor.
Galaxy A20: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: That's kind of and then even the next day, say, your friends, you run another friend, the next day and you're like okay, and it's still there. Take your buprenorphine so you, you know, in order to use, you would have to wait three full days and then and and if you're if you're in recovery.
Steve Holtsford: You know, in those three days.
Steve Holtsford: You know, you should you should call me. You should call bright heart health, you should you should call a friend, you should take a wall those other things rather than then could you know relapse.
Galaxy A20: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: That's, that's kind of the, the
Steve Holtsford: the nuts and bolts of it, it's a it's a medication that that prevents withdrawal and cravings and then it also blocks the receptor from heroin getting on it so
Steve Holtsford: That's kind of how the how the medication works.
Galaxy A20: Okay. Sounds good to me.
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, yeah. So the only thing
Steve Holtsford: Sonia is is that
Steve Holtsford: You in order to start the medication. You have to be in
Steve Holtsford: Uncomfortable with brawl like you are in an advanced battle.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, so, because if you don't, then you'll take the the
Steve Holtsford: Suboxone it will go to that receptor and it will kick off the heroin.
Steve Holtsford: And then not stimulated as much as the heroin and you'll and you'll feel worse.
Steve Holtsford: You see what I mean.
Galaxy A20: Yes.
Steve Holtsford: So some people, some people will tell you, Oh yeah, I took took Suboxone and made me feel horrible. That's because they took it too soon.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, so, so you
Steve Holtsford: Basically, let me just ask you this. If
Steve Holtsford: Do you have an idea.
Steve Holtsford: You know, if you last few years yesterday.
Steve Holtsford: When when today would have probably be today when you start to feel really bad.
Steve Holtsford: Or do you
Steve Holtsford: Wait, okay,
Galaxy A20: Wait a day. Yes.
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Because you know if
Steve Holtsford: If 10 were the worst withdrawal imaginable, and zero was no withdraw, you should probably be a four or five or six before you take of buprenorphine.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, okay.
Steve Holtsford: Do you know what about what time you might be a four or five or six
Galaxy A20: Then I started getting sick.
Galaxy A20: Yeah yeah I'm about to say about two, three.
Galaxy A20: This afternoon, yes.
Steve Holtsford: Okay. Okay. All right. So if it. So yeah, I wanted to be feel pretty darn shitty when you take that buprenorphine because then, then it will help you a lot, because if you take
Steve Holtsford: If you take it too early, you know that you know it's not dangerous.
Steve Holtsford: You know, it's not. It won't hurt you but it, but it makes you feel bad. And that's exactly what we don't want to have
Steve Holtsford: We want you to to get to feel better after the medication. Yeah.
Galaxy A20: Right, okay, out of the state.
Steve Holtsford: And and then
Steve Holtsford: You know, you just dissolve under your tongue like you didn't have the, er, you know, just let it sit there. Don't talk don't drink. Don't swallow and just let it sort of
Steve Holtsford: Dissolve over you know everybody's different. But it's at least five minutes really you just let it, let it sit there and and dissolve.
Galaxy A20: And work.
Galaxy A20: Work.
Steve Holtsford: Right. Okay. All right, let me just
Steve Holtsford: You don't have any allergies.
No.
Steve Holtsford: Well,
Steve Holtsford: Hang on. Sorry, my, my computers were going out.
Understand
Galaxy A20: Understand about the computers.
Steve Holtsford: Do you have a primary care doctor
Galaxy A20: No, but I says it all. Just go, Man, I'm a fan me one.
Galaxy A20: Okay, yeah.
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, and
Steve Holtsford: And we'll make some arrangements to get some blood work and urine test and
Steve Holtsford: I gotta admit, I'm not sure I do that but but
Steve Holtsford: quite hard know how to do that.
Galaxy A20: Right. She told me about that to go to. Yes, she did she tell
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Well, I'm gonna have to. I'm gonna log. Do you have a minute. Can I, can I
Sure.
Galaxy A20: Take
Steve Holtsford: Okay, because my my computer freaked out.
Galaxy A20: Okay, I understand.
Steve Holtsford: Oh, you're almost 50 Sonia.
Yes.
Galaxy A20: I'm getting this stuff.
Right.
Galaxy A20: It's time. Right.
It's
Galaxy A20: Yeah.
Steve Holtsford: It's time. Let's do it.
Galaxy A20: Yes, I'm ready. I'm ready to do it for real.
Steve Holtsford: Alright, let's see. And you've got eight
Steve Holtsford: I know you have you've had no recent hospitalizations besides that ER visit
Galaxy A20: Man No, I should don't
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: All right, I'm gonna I'm gonna try
Steve Holtsford: When you were in the ER. Did you have a tablet or a film.
A tablet.
Steve Holtsford: And was that. Okay. Did you
Galaxy A20: Yes. Did that think that's better than
Steve Holtsford: The film. Yes, sir.
Steve Holtsford: Okay. All right. I know none of them taste good, but
Right.
Steve Holtsford: Alright.
Steve Holtsford: So I think the the the typical dose Sonia is at least to start is is is eight milligrams in the morning.
Steve Holtsford: And eight milligrams in the evening.
Steve Holtsford: Okay, that I would, I would say 80% of the people you know that's usually the starting dose.
Steve Holtsford: And we can and we can stay in touch and make sure that that that is a good dose.
Steve Holtsford: For you.
Steve Holtsford: There, there are other medications. Did you, did they discharge you from the ER with any other medications.
Steve Holtsford: They all
Galaxy A20: Day is some kind of pump. They gave me, just in case that over deep
Galaxy A20: Plan.
Galaxy A20: I'm not planning on doing it so
Steve Holtsford: No, no. Yeah, that was Narcan okay
Steve Holtsford: But that's always good to have on hand.
Steve Holtsford: It's always it's always good to have on hand, you know, really. Everybody should carry that in their purse, just in case, because you
Steve Holtsford: You never know, you might be. You might be at the store and somebody needs it. So,
Galaxy A20: That's always good.
Steve Holtsford: It's always good to have
Galaxy A20: Okay, okay.
Steve Holtsford: And
Galaxy A20: I guess bagging do
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, yeah, go ahead and get it.
Galaxy A20: Go ahead and get it. We all should have
It.
Steve Holtsford: So there are other medications if you and we can we can stay in touch, if, if, for instance.
Steve Holtsford: body aches Ibuprofen is good.
Steve Holtsford: Diarrhea you can take Imodium
Galaxy A20: But
Steve Holtsford: You know, what are when you when you have withdrawal. What are your most bothersome symptoms.
Galaxy A20: Well kind invitation.
Galaxy A20: Me. Okay, can you sleep with do nothing.
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, kind of restless.
Steve Holtsford: Right. Yep. Yep. Okay. All right. All right. Well, this, this will I think you're, you're going to be easy. This is going to be easy.
Galaxy A20: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: This is gonna be easy. So, so let me just see if I can
Steve Holtsford: Send this to the
Steve Holtsford: Send your medication.
Steve Holtsford: If this works. It'll be a damn miracle.
Steve Holtsford: Oh, it says you must have a valid address
Galaxy A20: I do
Steve Holtsford: Yeah, let me just see here
Steve Holtsford: Oh, yeah.
Steve Holtsford: Oh, I don't have it. We don't have it in there.
Steve Holtsford: We just have mobile phone. We don't have your address.
Galaxy A20: Today,
Galaxy A20: I been alone.
Galaxy A20: That data though now.
Steve Holtsford: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: I got your I see your pharmacy.
Steve Holtsford: Let me see if I can
Steve Holtsford: Edit your address here.
Galaxy A20: Oh, yeah.
Steve Holtsford: Alright.
Steve Holtsford: I don't
Steve Holtsford: Maybe that's something that the care coordinators have to do
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Well, Sonia, I will, I will take care of this. And then
Steve Holtsford: So I will make sure that you have medications at your pharmacy. I'll make sure that your an address is in the computer.
Steve Holtsford: And so, but in terms of
Steve Holtsford: Next steps.
Steve Holtsford: I wanted to pick up the medication. And then, but don't start it until you feel really bad. Okay.
Galaxy A20: Okay.
Steve Holtsford: You need to you need you need to be
Steve Holtsford: You know, real and zero to 10 scale, you know, try to be at a five or six
Galaxy A20: Okay, so I can go around about that time to go get it.
Steve Holtsford: You can get it. Any so yeah give me a couple hours to get it to the pharmacy. But once you pick it up. Oh, don't, don't take it until you feel really bad.
Steve Holtsford: Right, okay.
Galaxy A20: Okay. After do it. Okay.
Steve Holtsford: And then, and then we'll be in close contact and also the the care coordinators and you and I will kind of figure out how to do this. Telemedicine stuff together.
Okay.
Steve Holtsford: Okay. All right. I really, I really enjoyed this. I look forward to getting to know you and
Steve Holtsford: And helping with your recovery.
Galaxy A20: Okay, I should I should thank you you
Steve Holtsford: You're welcome. You're welcome. Alright. Have a wonderful day we'll be in touch.
Galaxy A20: You too. All right.
Steve Holtsford: All right. Bye bye.